Reference: pubsub pulsar OIDC authentication (#3655)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/reference/components-reference/supported-pubsub/setup-pulsar.md

| publicKey          | N  | A public key to be used for publisher and consumer encryption. Value can be one of two options: file path for a local PEM cert, or the cert data string value  |
| privateKey          | N  | A private key to be used for consumer encryption. Value can be one of two options: file path for a local PEM cert, or the cert data string value  |
| keys          | N  | A comma delimited string containing names of [Pulsar session keys](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/3.0.x/security-encryption/#how-it-works-in-pulsar). Used in conjunction with `publicKey` for publisher encryption |

> | authType | N | One of `"none"`, `"token"` or `"oidc"`. The type of authentication mechanism to use. Defaults to `"none"`, unless `token` is defined in which case it defaults to `"token"`. | "oidc" |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| authType | N | One of `"none"`, `"token"`, or `"oidc"`. The type of authentication mechanism to use. Defaults to `"none"`, unless `token` is defined, in which case it defaults to `"token"`. | `"oidc"` |
```

Author: This field has now been removed

> | token | N  | `authType: token`. Token used for authentication.  | [How to create pulsar token](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/security-jwt/#generate-tokens)|

Reviewer 2: Given the settings required for oidc I suggest that there is a separate example of how these are set in the metadata. For example this component https://docs.dapr.io/reference/components-reference/supported-pubsub/setup-azure-eventhubs/#azure-active-directory-aad-authentication shows how to set AAD authentication correctly. 

And if there are any particular gochas outside of the the description and examples, add this into a paragraph or two. In other words be more specific to user on how to use the oidc settings

Author: Makes sense, will do :+1:

> | token | N  | `authType: token`. Token used for authentication.  | [How to create pulsar token](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/security-jwt/#generate-tokens)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| token | N  | `authType: token`. Token used for authentication.  | [How to create Pulsar token](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/security-jwt/#generate-tokens)|
```

> | oidcTokenURL | N | `authType: oidc`. URL to request the OIDC client_credentials token from. Must use `https` protocol, as per the [OIDC spec](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html) | "https://oauth.example.com/o/oauth2/token" |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| oidcTokenURL | N | `authType: oidc`. URL to request the OIDC client_credentials token from. Must use `https` protocol, as per the [OIDC spec](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html) | `"https://oauth.example.com/o/oauth2/token"` |
```

> | oidcTokenCAPEM | N | `authType: oidc`. CA PEM certificate bundle to connect to the OIDC issuer. If not defined, the system's certificate pool will be used. | "---BEGIN CERTIFICATE---\n...\n---END CERTIFICATE---" |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| oidcTokenCAPEM | N | `authType: oidc`. CA PEM certificate bundle to connect to the OIDC issuer. If not defined, the system's certificate pool will be used. | `"---BEGIN CERTIFICATE---\n...\n---END CERTIFICATE---"` |
```

> | oidcClientID | N | `authType: oidc`. OIDC client ID. | "my-client-id" |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| oidcClientID | N | `authType: oidc`. OIDC client ID. | `"my-client-id"` |
```

> | oidcClientSecret | N | `authType: oidc`. OIDC client secret. | "my-client-secret" |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| oidcClientSecret | N | `authType: oidc`. OIDC client secret. | `"my-client-secret"` |
```

> | oidcAudiences | N | `authType: oidc`. Comma separated list of audiences to request for. Must not be empty. | "my-audience-1,my-audience-2" |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| oidcAudiences | N | `authType: oidc`. Comma separated list of audiences to request for. Must not be empty. | `"my-audience-1,my-audience-2"` |
```

> | oidcScopes | N | `authType: oidc`. Comma separated list of scopes to request. If empty, defaults to `"openid"`. If defined, `"openid"` must be present. | "openid,profile,email" |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| oidcScopes | N | `authType: oidc`. Comma separated list of scopes to request. If empty, defaults to `"openid"`. If defined, `"openid"` must be present. | `"openid,profile,email"` |
```

| processMode | N | Enable processing multiple messages at once. Default: `"async"` | `"async"`, `"sync"`|
| subscribeType | N | Pulsar supports four kinds of [subscription types](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/3.0.x/concepts-messaging/#subscription-types). Default: `"shared"` | `"shared"`, `"exclusive"`, `"failover"`, `"key_shared"`|
| partitionKey | N | Sets the key of the message for routing policy. Default: `""` | |

> | token | N  | Token used for authentication. | [How to create Pulsar token](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/security-jwt/#generate-tokens)|

Reviewer 3: Consider creating a separate table for each authentication profile? (and include a mention that it can work without any). Example: https://docs.dapr.io/reference/components-reference/supported-state-stores/setup-sqlserver/#spec-metadata-fields

Reviewer 2: @JoshVanL - Can you address this comment from @ItalyPaleAle?

Reviewer 2: @JoshVanL - ping

Author: @msfussell all comments look to be resolved from my side I think.

| partitionKey | N | Sets the key of the message for routing policy. Default: `""` | |

### Authenticate using Token

To authenticate to pulsar using a static [JWT token](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/security-jwt), you can use the following metadata field:

| Field  | Required | Details | Example |
|--------|:--------:|---------|---------|
| token | N | Token used for authentication. | [How to create Pulsar token](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/security-jwt/#generate-tokens)|

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: messagebus
spec:
  type: pubsub.pulsar
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: host
    value: "pulsar.example.com:6650"
  - name: token
    secretKeyRef:
      name: pulsar
      key:  token
```

### Authenticate using OIDC

Since `v3.0`, [Pulsar supports OIDC authentication](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/3.0.x/security-openid-connect/).
To enable OIDC authentication, you need to provide the following OAuth2 parameters to the component spec.
OAuth2 authentication cannot be used in combination with token authentication.
It is recommended that you use a secret reference for the client secret.

> The pulsar OAuth2 authenticator is not specifically complaint with OIDC so it is your responsibility to ensure fields are compliant, i.e. the issuer URL must use the `https` protocol, the requested scopes include `openid`, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pulsar OAuth2 authenticator is not specifically complaint with OIDC so it is your responsibility to ensure fields are compliant. For example, the issuer URL must use the `https` protocol, the requested scopes include `openid`, etc.
```

> If the `oauth2TokenCAPEM` field is omitted then the system's certificate pool will be used for connecting to the OAuth2 issuer if using `https`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the `oauth2TokenCAPEM` field is omitted then the system's certificate pool is used for connecting to the OAuth2 issuer if using `https`.
```

| Field  | Required | Details | Example |
|--------|:--------:|---------|---------|

> | oauth2TokenURL | N | URL to request the OIDC client_credentials token from. Must not be empty. | 1"https://oauth.example.com/o/oauth2/token"` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| oauth2TokenURL | N | URL to request the OIDC client_credentials token from. Must not be empty. | 1"https://oauth.example.com/o/oauth2/token"` |
```
```suggestion
| oauth2TokenURL | N | URL to request the OIDC client_credentials token from. Must not be empty. | "https://oauth.example.com/o/oauth2/token"` |
```

      }'
```

### OIDC Authentication

> Since `v3.0`, [Pulsar supports OIDC authentication](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/3.0.x/security-openid-connect/).

Reviewer 3: @JoshVanL would the changes we made support OAuth2 (without OIDC) too? https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/3.0.x/security-oauth2/

Author: No idea, we can add a certification test to see if it would work.

> To enable OIDC authentication, you need to provide the following OAuth2 parameters to the component spec.

Reviewer 3: Please add some paragraph breaks (empty line in between), or maybe even use bullet points. When rendered this all appears in one paragraph.

Author: This is intentional. I'm following the [one sentence per line](https://nick.groenen.me/notes/one-sentence-per-line/) format.
